Add Vercel Integration tutorial (#10411)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/connect-tidbcloud-to-vercel.md

* [Creating a new personal account](https://vercel.com/docs/teams-and-accounts#creating-a-personal-account) or [Creating a new team](https://vercel.com/docs/teams-and-accounts/create-or-join-a-team#creating-a-team).
* [Creating a project](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/overview#creating-a-project) in Vercel, or if you do not have an application to deploy, you can use the [TiDB Cloud Starter Template](https://vercel.com/templates/next.js/tidb-cloud-starter) to have a try.

One Vercel project can only connect to one TiDB Cloud cluster. To change the integration, you need to first disconnect the current cluster and then connect to a new cluster.

### Available TiDB Cloud account and cluster

You are expected to have an account and a cluster in TiDB Cloud. If you do not have any, refer to [Create a TiDB cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md) in TiDB Cloud.

To integrate with Vercel, you are expected to have the "Organization Owner" access to your organization or "Organization Member" + "Project" access to the target project in TiDB Cloud.

One TiDB Cloud cluster can connect to multiple Vercel projects.

### All IP addresses allowed for traffic filter in TiDB Cloud

> Make sure that the traffic filter of your TiDB Cloud cluster allows all IP addresses (set to `0.0.0.0/0`) for connection, this is because Vercel deployments use [dynamic IP  addresses](https://vercel.com/guides/how-to-allowlist-deployment-ip-address). If you use TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration, TiDB Cloud automatically adds a `0.0.0.0/0` traffic filter to your cluster in the integration workflow if there is none.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that the traffic filter of your TiDB Cloud cluster allows all IP addresses (set to `0.0.0.0/0`) for connection, this is because Vercel deployments use [dynamic IP  addresses](https://vercel.com/guides/how-to-allowlist-deployment-ip-address). If you use the TiDB Cloud Vercel integration, TiDB Cloud automatically adds a `0.0.0.0/0` traffic filter to your cluster in the integration workflow if there is none.
```

> 

Reviewer: 问题：“ If you use TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration, TiDB Cloud automatically adds a 0.0.0.0/0 traffic filter to your cluster in the integration workflow if there is none.” 的意思是如果用方法一的话，如果你自己没在 TiDB Cloud 这里添加 0.0.0.0/0，集成过程中也会自动添加所有 IP 地址为都可访问吗？如果是这样，建议从 prerequisites 里删除，直接在方法一的时提醒用户会有这个变化即可。 （方法二里，看到也已经写了用户要先 Allow Access from Anywhere ）

Author: 是的，但是这里我建议单独列出来，这个不仅仅是功能上的考虑，而且是提醒用户网络安全上的需要，毕竟全 0 访问对有的用户可能是一个 surprise.

> ## Connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel integration
```

> To connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration, go to the [TiDB Cloud integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/tidb-cloud) page from the [Vercel's Integrations Marketplace](https://vercel.com/integrations). Using this method, you can choose which cluster to connect to, and TiDB Cloud will automatically generate all the necessary environment variables for your Vercel projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel integration, go to the [TiDB Cloud integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/tidb-cloud) page from the [Vercel's Integrations Marketplace](https://vercel.com/integrations). Using this method, you can choose which cluster to connect to, and TiDB Cloud will automatically generate all the necessary environment variables for your Vercel projects.
```

The detailed steps are as follows:

> 1. Click **Add Integration** in the upper-right area of the [TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/tidb-cloud) page. The **Add TiDB Cloud** dialog displays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add Integration** in the upper-right area of the [TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/tidb-cloud) page. The **Add TiDB Cloud** dialog is displayed.
```

2. Select the scope of your integration in the drop-down list and click **CONTINUE**.

> 3. Select the Vercel Projects to which the Integration will be added and click **CONTINUE**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the Vercel Projects to which the integration will be added and click **CONTINUE**.
```

4. Confirm the required permissions for integration and click **ADD INTEGRATION**. Then you are directed to an integration page of the TiDB Cloud console.

> 5. On the integration page, select the target Vercel Projects, and select the target TiDB Cloud cluster after providing the cluster information. A TiDB Cloud cluster belongs to [an organizations and a project](/tidb-cloud/manage-user-access.md#view-the-organization-and-project).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. On the integration page, select the target Vercel projects, and select the target TiDB Cloud cluster after providing the cluster information. Each TiDB Cloud cluster belongs to [an organizations and a project](/tidb-cloud/manage-user-access.md#view-the-organization-and-project).
```

6. Click **Add Integration and Return to Vercel**.
7. Back to your Vercel dashboard, go to your Vercel project, click **Settings** > **Environment Variables**, and confirm that the environment variables have been automatically added.

    If the variables have been added, the connection is completed.

> After you have completed the integration setup and successfully connected a TiDB Cloud cluster to your Vercel projects, the information necessary for the connection is set in the projects' environment variables. The following are some common variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have completed the integration setup and successfully connected a TiDB Cloud cluster to your Vercel projects, the information necessary for the connection is automatically set in the projects' environment variables. The following are some common variables:
```

```
TIDB_HOST
TIDB_PORT
TIDB_USER
TIDB_PASSWORD
```

For Dedicated Tier clusters, the root CA is set in this variable:

```
TIDB_SSL_CA
```

## Connect via manually setting environment variables

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To use this method, make sure that you have set the **Allow Access from Anywhere** traffic filter in the [**Security Settings**](/tidb-cloud/configure-security-settings) dialog and save the password.

```

> 1. Follow [connect to a TiDB Cloud cluster via standard connection](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster.md#connect-via-standard-connection) to get the connection information. Do not forget to set the **Allow Access from Anywhere** traffic filter on the **Security Settings** page and save the password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Follow [connect to a TiDB Cloud cluster via standard connection](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster.md#connect-via-standard-connection) to get the connection information of your TiDB cluster. 
```

> 2. Go to your Vercel dashboard > Vercel project > **Settings** > **Environment Variables**, [declare each environment variable value](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/environment-variables#declare-an-environment-variable) according to the connection information in Step 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to your Vercel dashboard > Vercel project > **Settings** > **Environment Variables**, and then [declare each environment variable value](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/environment-variables#declare-an-environment-variable) according to the connection information of your TiDB cluster.
```

The following is an example of the connection variables for a TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier cluster:

```
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: '<your_host>',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
```

> In Vercel, you can declare the variables as follows. You can use whatever name that suits your projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Vercel, you can declare the variables as follows. You can customize the name according to your project need.
```

> 

Reviewer: 问题：use whatever name 是指，TIDB\_HOST **VALUE** 中的  VALUE  可以自定义吗？

Author: **VALUE** 就是 VALUE，后面的占位符内容是需要更改的
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3690895/196617268-3312e0e1-6f00-4927-aa97-8b149ab517e3.png)

* **NAME** = TIDB\_HOST **VALUE** = `<your_host>`
* **NAME** = TIDB\_PORT **VALUE** = 4000
* **NAME** = TIDB\_USER **VALUE** = root
* **NAME** = TIDB\_PASSWORD **VALUE** = `<your_password>`
* **NAME** = TIDB\_SSL\_CA **VALUE** = `<content_of_ca.pem>`

> ## Configure Connections

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Modify connection settings
```

Author: I'd like to leave it as is. Since Vercel use the term "Configure".

> ## Configure Connections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure connections
```

> After you have installed TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration, you can add or remove connections inside the integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have connected your TiDB Cloud cluster to Vercel projects, you can add or remove connections inside the integration.
```

1. In your Vercel dashboard, click **Integrations**.
2. Click **Manage** in the TiDB Cloud entry.
3. Click **Configure**.
4. Click **Add Project** or **Remove** to add or remove connections.

> When you remove a connection, environment variables set by the integration workflow are removed from the Vercel project. The traffic filter and the data of the TiDB Cloud cluster are not affected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you remove a connection, environment variables set by the integration workflow are removed from the Vercel project either. The traffic filter and the data of the TiDB Cloud cluster are not affected.
```

---
title: Integrate TiDB Cloud with Vercel
summary: Learn how to connect your TiDB Cloud clusters to Vercel projects.
---

# Integrate TiDB Cloud with Vercel

[Vercel](https://vercel.com/) is the platform for frontend developers, providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration.

> This guide introduces how to connect your TiDB Cloud clusters to Vercel projects.
> 
> To connect your TiDB Cloud database to your Vercel projects, have all prerequisites met and use one of the following methods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide introduces how to connect your TiDB Cloud clusters to Vercel projects using one of the following methods:
```

> * [Connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration](#connect-via-the-tidb-cloud-verce-integration)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration](#connect-via-the-tidb-cloud-vercel-integration)
```

> * [Connect via manually configuring environment variables](#connect-via-manually-configuring-environment-variables)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Connect via manually configuring environment variables](#connect-via-manually-setting-environment-variables)
```

## Prerequisites

> Before connecting your TiDB Cloud cluster to a Vercel project, make sure the following prerequisites are met.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before connection, make sure the following prerequisites are met.
```

### Available Vercel account and project

You are expected to have an account and a project in Vercel. If you do not have any, refer to the following Vercel documents to create one:

* [Creating a new personal account](https://vercel.com/docs/teams-and-accounts#creating-a-personal-account) or [Creating a new team](https://vercel.com/docs/teams-and-accounts/create-or-join-a-team#creating-a-team).

> * [Creating a project](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/overview#creating-a-project) in Vercel, or if you do not already have an application to deploy, you can use our [template](https://vercel.com/templates/next.js/tidb-cloud-starter).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Creating a project](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/overview#creating-a-project) in Vercel, or if you do not have an application to deploy, you can use the [TiDB Cloud Starter Template](https://vercel.com/templates/next.js/tidb-cloud-starter) to have a try.
```

One Vercel project can only be connected to one TiDB Cloud cluster. To change the integration, you need to first disconnect the current cluster and then connect to a new cluster.

### Available TiDB Cloud account and cluster

You are expected to have an account and a cluster in TiDB Cloud. If you do not have any, refer to [Create a TiDB cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md) in TiDB Cloud.

To integrate with Vercel, you are expected to have the "Organization Owner" access to your organization or "Organization Member + Project Access" to the target project in TiDB Cloud.

One TiDB Cloud cluster can connect to multiple Vercel projects.

> ### Traffic filter properly set for your TiDB Cloud cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### All IP addresses allowed for traffic filter in TiDB Cloud
```

> To integrate with Vercel, you are expected to have the "Organization Owner" access to your organization or "Organization Member" + "Project" Access to the target project in TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To integrate with Vercel, you are expected to have the "Organization Owner" access to your organization or "Organization Member" + "Project" access to the target project in TiDB Cloud.
```

## Connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration

To connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration, go to the [TiDB Cloud integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/tidb-cloud) page from the [Vercel's Integrations Marketplace](https://vercel.com/integrations). Using this method, you can choose which cluster to connect to, and TiDB Cloud will automatically generate all the necessary environment variables for your Vercel projects.

The detailed steps are as follows:

1. Click **Add Integration** in the upper-right area of the [TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/tidb-cloud) page. The **Add TiDB Cloud** dialog displays.
2. Select the scope of your integration in the drop-down list and click **CONTINUE**.
3. Select the Vercel Projects to which the Integration will be added and click **CONTINUE**.
4. Confirm the required permissions for integration and click **ADD INTEGRATION**. Then you are directed to an integration page of the TiDB Cloud console.

> 5. On the left side of the integration page, select the Vercel Projects for connection.
> 6. On the right side of the integration page, provide the organization and project information and select the target cluster. A TiDB Cloud cluster belongs to [an organizations and a project](/tidb-cloud/manage-user-access.md#view-the-organization-and-project).
> 7. Click **Add Integration and Return to Vercel**.
> 8. Back to your Vercel dashboard, go to your Vercel project, click **Settings** > **Environment Variables**, and confirm that the environment variables have been automatically added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. On the integration page, select the Vercel Projects for connection, and provide the organization and project information and select the target cluster. A TiDB Cloud cluster belongs to [an organizations and a project](/tidb-cloud/manage-user-access.md#view-the-organization-and-project).
6. Click **Add Integration and Return to Vercel**.
7. Back to your Vercel dashboard, go to your Vercel project, click **Settings** > **Environment Variables**, and confirm that the environment variables have been automatically added.

    If the variables have been added, the connection is completed.
```

> 8. Back to your Vercel dashboard, go to your Vercel project by clicking **Settings** > **Environment Variables**, and confirm that the environment variables have been automatically added.

Reviewer 2: 建议在这里提示下，连接成功的标志是什么

Author: 是的

Author: 在下面一段就是说“如果你成功了，连接信息都会被加到环境变量里”。

> 8. Back to your Vercel dashboard, go to your Vercel project by clicking **Settings** > **Environment Variables**, and confirm that the environment variables have been automatically added.

Author: ```suggestion
8. Back to your Vercel dashboard, go to your Vercel project, click **Settings** > **Environment Variables**, and confirm that the environment variables have been automatically added.
```

> After you have completed the integration setup and successfully connected a TiDB Cloud cluster to your Vercel projects, the information necessary to connect the TiDB Cloud cluster are set in the projects' environment variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have completed the integration setup and successfully connected a TiDB Cloud cluster to your Vercel projects, the information necessary for the connection is set in the projects' environment variables.
```

```
TIDB_HOST
TIDB_PORT
TIDB_USER
TIDB_PASSWORD
```

For *Dedicated Tier* clusters, the root CA is set in

```
TIDB_SSL_CA
```

## Connect Manually

1. Follow [connect via standard connection](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster.md#connect-via-standard-connection) to get the connection information. Don't forget to set the *Allow Access from Anywhere* traffic filter and save the password.

> 2. Go to your Vercel dashboard, [declare each value](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/environment-variables#declare-an-environment-variable) got from the previous step on your Vercel project > **Settings** > **Environment Variables**.

Author: 就是上面第一步里的："get connect information" and "save password"

> 2. Go to your Vercel dashboard, [declare each value](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/environment-variables#declare-an-environment-variable) got from the previous step on your Vercel project > **Settings** > **Environment Variables**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Go to your Vercel dashboard > Vercel project > **Settings** > **Environment Variables**, [declare each environment variable value](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/environment-variables#declare-an-environment-variable) according to the connection information in Step 1.
```

> For Dedicated Tier clusters, the root CA is set in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Dedicated Tier clusters, the root CA is set in this variable:
```

For example, for a *Dedicated Tier* cluster, you get connection variables like

```
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: '<your_host>',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
```

> In Vercel, you could declare them as follows (you could use whatever name, just suits your projects)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Vercel, you can declare the variables as follows. You can use whatever name that suits your projects.
```

> * **NAME** = TIDB\_HOST **VALUE** = <your_host>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **NAME** = TIDB\_HOST **VALUE** = \<your_host\>
```

* **NAME** = TIDB\_PORT **VALUE** = 4000
* **NAME** = TIDB\_USER **VALUE** = root
* **NAME** = TIDB\_PASSWORD **VALUE** = <your_password>
* **NAME** = TIDB\_SSL\_CA **VALUE** = <content_of_ca.pem>

## Configure Connections

> After you install an integration, you can add or remove connections inside the integration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have installed TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration, you can add or remove connections inside the integration.
```

1. In your Vercel dashboard, click **Integrations**.

> 2. Click the **Manage** button of TiDB Cloud entry.
> 3. Click the **Configure** button.
> 4. Click the **Add Project** button or **Remove** to add or remove connections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click **Manage** in the TiDB Cloud entry.
3. Click **Configure**.
4. Click **Add Project** or **Remove** to add or remove connections.
```

> When removing a connection, environment variables set by the integration workflow are removed from the Vercel project. Traffic filter and data of the TiDB Cloud cluster are left untouched.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you remove a connection, environment variables set by the integration workflow are removed from the Vercel project. The traffic filter and the data of the TiDB Cloud cluster are not changed.
```

> When you remove a connection, environment variables set by the integration workflow are removed from the Vercel project. The traffic filter and the data of the TiDB Cloud cluster are not changed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you remove a connection, environment variables set by the integration workflow are removed from the Vercel project. The traffic filter and the data of the TiDB Cloud cluster are not affected.
```

---
title: Integrate TiDB Cloud with Vercel
summary: Learn how to connect your TiDB Cloud clusters to Vercel projects.
---

# Integrate TiDB Cloud with Vercel

[Vercel](https://vercel.com/) is the platform for frontend developers, providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration.

This guide introduces how to connect your TiDB Cloud clusters to Vercel projects.

To connect your TiDB Cloud database to your Vercel projects, have all prerequisites met and use one of the following methods:

> * [Connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration](connect-via-the-tidb-cloud-verce-integration)
> * [Connect via manually configuring environment variables](connect-via-manually-configuring-environment-variables)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel Integration](#connect-via-the-tidb-cloud-verce-integration)
* [Connect via manually configuring environment variables](#connect-via-manually-configuring-environment-variables)

```

2. Select the scope of your integration in the drop-down list and click **CONTINUE**.
3. Select the Vercel Projects to which the Integration will be added and click **CONTINUE**.
4. Confirm the required permissions for integration and click **ADD INTEGRATION**. Then you are directed to an integration page of the TiDB Cloud console.
5. On the left side of the integration page, select the Vercel Projects for connection.
6. On the right side of the integration page, provide the organization and project information and select the target cluster. A TiDB Cloud cluster belongs to [an organizations and a project](/tidb-cloud/manage-user-access.md#view-the-organization-and-project).
7. Click **Add Integration and Return to Vercel**.
8. Back to your Vercel dashboard, confirm the environment variables were added by going to your Vercel project > **Settings** > **Environment Variables**.

### Environment Variables

After you have completed the integration setup and successfully connected a TiDB Cloud cluster to your Vercel projects, the information necessary to connect the TiDB Cloud cluster are set in the projects' environment variables

```
TIDB_HOST
TIDB_PORT
TIDB_USER
TIDB_PASSWORD
```

> For *Dedicated Tier* clusters, the root CA is set in

Author: ```suggestion
For Dedicated Tier clusters, the root CA is set in
```
